Introduction
In this lesson, the concept of the integrated development environment (IDE), its properties and features of different code editors are discussed.
The development of projects using online editors and simplification of working with code using additional modules are described.
The detailed instructions on installing the IDE and configuring it before the start are given in this lesson too.


What is an Integrated Development Environment (IDE)?
Any modern IDE includes tools for compiling or interpreting, automating builds, and debugging code. Some development environments have various tools for object-oriented programming,
which is increasingly popular in Web development.

Unlike most editors, IDEs usually support not only processing of individual source code files, but also full-fledged projects, 
as well as their specific options, which may include links to external software libraries, editor customization, version control,
and debugging options. Each IDE has its own functionality and a set of plug-ins that greatly simplify the process of developing programs and reduce the developer's involvement in routine tasks. Also,
there is a functionality that is used for the development of the back end (for example, for Node.js, Java or .NET).




Online Code Editors
Online code editor is a tool, which is on a remote server and is accessed and used through a browser. 
Some online code editors have functionality that is similar to a regular text editor, while others are more like full-fledged IDEs. 
There are various online services that allow to create Web pages and provide the ability to execute HTML, CSS and JS code; work together; save work results.

Click on the dropdown lists to view the main online editors.













Notepad ++ is a free source code editor that supports multiple languages. Notepad++ is written in C++, 
which ensures fast execution speed and small program size. The basic functionality can be extended both through plugins and through third-party modules - compilers and preprocessors.





Atom is a free text editor for Linux, macOS, Windows. It has an open source code and supports most plugins written in Node.js,
they are free software, developed and maintained by the community.




Sublime Text is a text editor with syntax highlighting that supports a large number of programming languages and Python plugins. 
The code is not open source. It is a commercial project.



Visual Studio Code is a lightweight source code editor. It is available for Windows, macOS and Linux, while supporting: JavaScript,
TypeScript and Node.js and has many extensions for other languages (such as C++, C#, Java, Python, PHP, Go) and runtimes (such as .NET and Unity).


Adobe Brackets is an open source text editor. It is available for Windows, macOS and Linux, focused on working with HTML, CSS and JavaScript, with a focus on visual tools..





JSFiddle
CodePen
JSBin
Repl.it
